some studies claim that those who
regularly tackle all kinds of riddles
are more likely than others to think
outside the box and find unusual and
effective solutions to existing problems
but even if you haven't cracked a puzzle
in your life you can still work on
developing your critical thinking and
analytical skills ready here we go you
have one glass of milk and one glass of
water you need to empty these glasses
into a bowl in such a way that later you
can separate the milk from the water you
aren't allowed to use any kind of
dividers pour all the water in the bowl
and freeze it after that add the milk
[Music]
one company organized a betting game
where one red and one blue marble were
placed in a dark box
if a player picked the blue marble the
company had to pay them $5,000 but if
the player guessed it wrong they had to
pay the company $100 the company cheated
by always putting in the box
two red marbles instead of one red and
one blue but no one could prove it mark
was observing people lose one after
another then he took part of the game
and won how did he do it
[Music]
the man picked a marble and quickly put
it in his mouth without showing the
thing to anyone else
the remaining marble was read according
to the rules
it meant that marks marble was blue the
company had to pay him the money Emma's
husband Liam knew his wife had been
dreaming of going to an archeological
site one day she told him about a
perfect opportunity there was a remote
site ready to be excavated but there was
no internet or network connection there
she would have to camp in a tent with
almost no modern conveniences but since
she was really excited about this trip
Liam was ready to wait for her at home
if she was happy he was happy as well
two days later Liam received a message
and a photo from Emma the man got
furious he realized Emma had been lying
about the whole thing how did he
understand it
[Music]
before leaving Emma told her husband
there was no internet connection or cell
phone reception there then how did she
manage to send him the photo there are
three keys that can open three doors
what is the biggest number of attempts
you'll need to figure out the key for
each door
[Music]
if you're really bad at guessing you'll
need six attempts he won three attempts
for three doors key to two attempts for
two doors key three when attempt for the
last door one King told his three
daughters to place three identical
kettles with the same amount of water on
fire the King promised that his heir
would be the husband of the daughter
whose kettle would boil first
surprisingly his youngest daughters
kettle was the first to boil but the
girl wasn't married and didn't even want
a husband how did she get so lucky the
other two daughters kept lifting the
lids to check if the water was already
boiling what has 13 hearts but no other
organs
a deck of cards a rich elderly lady
lived with her family in a big house all
the family members worked in the medical
field her son was a surgeon her daughter
was a dentist and her granddaughter was
a nurse one morning the lady woke up to
discover that $1,000,000 she always kept
in a safe in her room had been stolen
the police questioned the family members
since no one else knew the code the son
claimed that he had been called in to
perform an urgent surgery late in the
evening he had to spend the whole night
in the hospital
the daughter explained that one of her
patients had had a heart attack she had
to drive to the hospital at midnight and
the granddaughter said that she had had
a night shift and had returned home only
at 9:00 in the morning who is the thief
[Music]
it's the daughter she's a dentist so she
definitely didn't have to rush to the
hospital because of someone's heart
attack you have five pieces of chain
each made up of three links you have to
make a long chain out of these five
pieces welding an open link will cost
you three dollars and breaking a link
open is $1 can you make a long chain if
you have only 15 dollars first take one
piece of chain and break all of its
three links open it'll cost you three
dollars then link the remaining four
pieces of chain with these open links
Welding these links will cost you
another nine dollars in total you'll pay
only twelve dollars a man accidentally
dropped a glass of water out of the
window surprisingly the glass didn't
shatter against the sidewalk how come
the man managed to catch the glass
before it fell down in the land of
riddles nine numbers from one to nine
one to cross a river there is a boat but
it can't carry more than three numbers
at a time plus the sum of the traveling
numbers has to be a square number and
the boat can't move on its own how many
trips will be needed for all the numbers
to cross the river at least seven trips
two plus five plus nine equals sixteen
nine goes back three plus four plus nine
equals sixteen nine returns one plus
seven plus eight equals sixteen one goes
back one plus six plus nine equals
sixteen Isabella is standing behind Mia
but at the same time Mia is also
standing behind Isabella how is it
possible
[Music]
the girls are standing with their backs
toward each other
a man was found unconscious in the park
and was immediately rushed to the
hospital he had been hit on the head
with a blunt object the police soon
found out his name William and located
his cell phone they called the last
three people William had contacted
before the accident
they were Sophia the wife James the
brother and been the best friend all of
them were invited to the police station
and asked what they knew about the
accident James said I'm sure it was
Sophia who did it she has a secret lover
and wants to divorce William but my
brother is against this idea Sophia said
I was far from the park when it all
happened I was visiting my lawyer I bet
it was James several weeks ago we found
out that William had to get a large
inheritance and James was furious about
it and Ben said both William and James
like walking through that park by the
way have you heard that William got a
large sum of money and James thought it
was unfair which of these people hit
William
[Music]
the police offers didn't mention that
William had been hit in the park it
means that Sophia and Ben committed this
crime a beautiful water lily grows in
the middle of a tiny pond the flower
doubles in size every day you know that
in ten days it will cover the entire
pond the question is in how many days
the lily will cover half the pond
it'll happen on the ninth day the
literally doubles in size every day it
means that it'll cover half of the pond
one day before it covers the entire pond
Hana has bought ten apple trees for her
garden she wants to plant these trees in
five rows so that there are four trees
in each row is it possible yep it's
possible if she plants the trees on the
edges of a five-pointed star several
bank workers visited a canteen in their
office building since it was the Riddle
day Matthew Isaac and Wyatt were served
tea and hunter Christian and Nathan
drank coffee
what drink did Erin get
[Music]
Aaron had to drink tea even though he
doesn't like it simply because he has a
double letter name a man was terribly
tired after a long working day but when
he finally laid down on his bed he
couldn't fall asleep he was turning and
tossing until eventually he picked up
his mobile phone dialed a number
listened to several long tones and hung
up after that he immediately fell asleep
how come his next door neighbor was
snoring loudly the phone woke the
neighbor up and the man managed to fall
asleep mark and James played in a dark
and dirty attic when they came down
Mark's face was covered in dust while
James face was miraculously clean at the
same time it was James who when had
washed his face
why
[Music]
James look at Marc's face and thought he
was dirty too but when Mark looked at
James whose face was spotless he decided
he was just as clean Oliver has in mind
one of three numbers one two or three
Charlotte is allowed to ask him just one
question to figure out which number it
is Oliver can answer her question Ollie
with no yes and I don't know what
question should Charlotte ask she can
say I have the number one or two in mind
is your number larger than my number if
Oliver answers yes
it means he's chosen three if he answers
I don't know the number he has in mind
is two and if he says no his number is
one when do you look at number two it's
a ten
it happens when you sneak a peek at your
wristwatch Mike was surprised to see the
window in his room slowly open two men
in masks climbed inside and started to
put all the expensive things they
noticed in their bags 20 minutes later
they left through the window and might
continue to do what he had been doing
before half an hour later Mike forgot
all about this accident
Mike was healthy and in his right mind
why didn't he stop the burglars Mike was
a baby lying in his crib detective
Larsen was supposed to provide security
on a luxurious cruise liner
one day the ship got into a terrible
storm most passengers stayed in their
cabins suffering from seasickness but
suddenly the detective heard some
strange noise coming from the deck he
rushed there and found a man lying
unconscious on the floor when the man
came around he told his story I was
returning to my room when somebody hit
me on the head and took my money in
Mobile fall sometime later detective
Larsen found two suspects Jacob and Mike
Jacob came him that at that time he had
been in his room feeling terribly sick
and Mike said that he hadn't left his
cabin he stayed there reading a book
who's lying
[Music]
mic is lying it would be impossible to
read a book during such a violent storm
nick was an experienced skydiver but one
day something went wrong a strong wind
brought him to the forest and the man
found himself among the trees with no
food or water soon nick saw four roads
in front of him wouldn't lead to a
supermassive black hole that was
consuming everything around the second
road ended in a lake full of sharks
the third road led to a mountain that
was impossible to climb over and the
fourth row ended in a bottomless abyss
which road should Nick take he should
follow the third road
no one says he has to climb over the
mountain he can simply go around in the
middle of a pleasant evening several
cafe goers heard some commotion coming
from the back of the place something
heavy was falling and they could hear
glass shattering one of the clients
called the police soon after that the
cafe owner rushed inside he found a
police officer in the back room the man
explained that he had gotten a call and
driven to the cafe right away
unfortunately he was alone and couldn't
stop the criminals they managed to
escape in their sports car but the owner
didn't believe the police officer story
why
when the owner arrived at the cafe there
was no police car at the entrance Emily
gave birth to a girl she was very happy
but the next day when a nurse brought
Emily her baby
the young woman immediately understood
that it wasn't her daughter
how did she figure it out because that
baby was a boy you've bought a cute
little rabbit at a pet store the animal
can breed every two months and every
time it will deliver five babies how
many rabbits will you have in a year
[Music]
you'll still have only one rabbit if you
want to have little bunnies you have to
buy the second rabbit captain white star
was on the bridge of a spacecraft when
one of the engineers informed him there
was a problem with the engine they
needed to land as soon as possible to
repair it there were three planets
nearby one of them was freezing cold and
covered with ice
the second was boiling hot and covered
with molten lava and the third planet
was covered with acid that could easily
destroy the ship which planet did the
captain choose the captain shows the
cold planet very low temperatures aren't
a problem for a spaceship Lilly came
home and saw her favorite vase shattered
extremely upset she exclaimed what's
happened to my vase her husband Sam
explained that around lunchtime he heard
a loud crash from their bedroom he
rushed there and saw that lillies
expensive vase had been broken and a
burglar was running away Sam followed
the man outside was his glasses got
foggy because of the cold weather that's
why he missed the man Lilly called the
police but after police officers heard
the whole story they refused to
investigate this case why
glasses fog up when you enter a warm
place not vice-versa
Sam invented the story because he was
afraid to admit he had been the one to
break the vase in the middle of a long
flight to criminal stood up and started
to threaten the passengers they demanded
$1,000,000 and a helicopter
one of the criminals had a pilot's
license and could fly a copter when the
plane landed at the nearest airport the
criminals got everything they had
requested a case full of money and a
helicopter but when they got inside they
didn't manage to fly away and were
captured by the police why couldn't they
start the machine if it didn't have any
technical problems the helicopter was ok
but there was no fuel in its day you are
walking through the forest and suddenly
see a crossroad and a man standing there
one road leads to a village with a
criminal gang and the other to a safe
place you don't know whether this person
is a criminal but you can ask him one
question if the man is a criminal he'll
lie if he's from the safe place he'll
tell you the truth which question should
you ask
[Music]
the question should be where is your
village if the man isn't a criminal
he'll send you to the safe place and if
he's a criminal he'll lie and point
toward the safe place as well a criminal
has kidnapped your friend and tied him
to a tree a huge vicious dog is guarding
this tree you need to save your friend
at night but when you come to that place
you only have one piece of meat with you
it's not big enough to distract the dog
for the three minutes you need to cut
the ropes and help your friend escape
how can you solve this problem
[Music]
cut the meat into small pieces and throw
them all over the garden once there was
a marathon in the city the marathon
sponsors provided the runners and staff
with water and other drinks but soon
some people started to feel unwell and
most of them were rushed to the hospital
doctors found out they had been poisoned
but then how come the rest of the
participants were okay the poison
covered the necks of the bottles only
those who touch the bottles with their
lips while drinking were poisoned you
were wandering through the forest trying
to find a way to the train station you
meet a man who warns you that soon
you'll see a crossroads there will be a
post with several sign boards the right
one will lie and the left one will tell
you the truth a bit later you see this
post the right sign says to the train
station and the left one says to the
forest which direction should you choose
[Music]
if the right sign lies and the left sign
will lead you back to the forest go
straight and you'll get to the station
three friends met at school after summer
vacation and started sharing their
stories Ellie said she had been
traveling with her parents all over New
Zealand Peter boasted that he had been
to Austria with his father
they were skiing from the steepest
slopes and Lauren went on a business
trip with her mom they spent one month
in Latin America and the girl even
picked up some Latin one of the three
friends is lying who is it
no one speaks Latin in Latin America
they use Spanish and Portuguese they're
Lauren's the liar
every morning the same man crossed the
border by bicycle he had nothing but
sand in his bags customs officers knew
that he smuggled something but they
couldn't figure out what it was
what did the man smuggle
[Music]
he smuggled bicycles Jakob owned an
electronics store in a small town once a
huge crowd of people gathered near his
store because a new game consoles sold
at $1,000 hit the shelves Jakob was
working hard from the very morning till
the very evening he counted the money
gave change and handed out clients
purchases when he was about to close his
store a man entered he asked for a
console and handed Jakob two bills he
had enough money to buy the console and
Jakob didn't even need to give him any
change but the store owner immediately
called the police why the console cost
one thousand dollars but the man gave
Jacob only two bills it means that each
of them was a $500 bill but those don't
exist which number is missing two three
four to three
hmm
nope it's not for the missing number is
five you need to get subsequent two
three four and two three five your
bathtub is filled with water your task
is to empty it as fast as possible you
can use a spoon a cup or a bucket what
will you choose choose to pull the plug
out
you